# Developers documentation - tutorials

This directory contains all files for the GX4 tutorials of the developers' documentation. We use a Python module named
MkDocs to render the markdown files and generate the HTML files, which can then be published as tutorials.


## How to add or change tutorials

The `docs` directory contains all markdown files and assets (images and examples) that are referenced in
these markdown files. The general structure of the GX4 tutorials is defined inside the `mkdocs.yml` file below the
`nav` attribute.

To add new tutorials, you need to create new markdown files and reference them inside other markdown files and/or
the `mkdocs.yml` file.

To change existing tutorials, you need the change the corresponding markdown file. If you know the URL of the
related tutorial, you can easily find the markdown file by following the path inside the `docs` directory.


## How to change the navigation

The navigation inside the generated HTML files is defined in the `mkdocs.yml` file. The first items of the `nav`
attribute define the elements of the horizontal navigation bar, while the following sub-items define the elements of
the left navigation. The headlines of the markdown files define the table of content on the right side of every page.


## How to change the design of the tutorials

The theme used for the tutorials can be changed in [MkDocs Material Theme Fork]{target=_blank} repository.


## Installing MkDocs

As said, the documenation is generated by using MkDocs. Follow these steps to install MkDocs on you local maschine:

- Make sure you got Python and pip installed:
  ```plain
  $ python --version
  Python 2.7.18
  $ pip --version
  pip 20.0.2 from /.../.local/lib/python2.7/site-packages/pip (python 2.7)
  ```
- Optional: Updating pip: `python -m pip install --upgrade pip`
- Installing MkDocs: `python -m pip install mkdocs`
- Make sure MkDocs is installed:
  ```
  $ python -m mkdocs --version
  __main__.py, version 1.0.4 from /home/m.janssen/.local/lib/python2.7/site-packages/mkdocs (Python 2.7)
  ```

[MkDocs Material Theme Fork]: https://sources.gambio-server.net/gx-documentation/tutorial-theme-fork